Interventions
1. 3 - I want to go from Often to Almost by marking the pages I read in the text so that I would remember what I read and can easily look for what I read.
2. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by scheduling test-preparation time on my weekly assignment sheet so that it would be a productive day/ week for me and have a better time management.
3. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by preparing for test in a regular study place so that I can study better.
4. 4 - I want to improve my Almost by striving to understand and and manage my stress and also by taking time to relax and analyze why I am feeling that way so that it couldn't affect the people around and don't hurt them.
5. 3 - I want to go from Often to Almost by choosing carefully the people whom I study with so that I could get more help to people if I don't understand the lesson.
6. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by distributing my study time before examination so that I could get a better grade and don't have mental blocks during tests
7. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by eating and sleeping properly the night before the exam so that my mind could rest and remember what I studied the next day.
8. 3 - I want to go from Often to Almost by listening actively and objectively to the instructor so that if the exam is not in his/ her notes I could answer the instructors questions.
9. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by asking the teacher about the type of test to be given so that I could prepare for the test and try to make a mock test in the way the instructor made the test.
10. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by reviewing my notes the day I wrote them so that I would not forget the notes I wrote and if there will be a test I would be ready for it.
11. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by organizing the materials into diagrams so that I could easily absorb the lesson.
12. 2 - I want to go from Sometimes to Often to Almost by viewing test at learning ooportunities, not aversions so that I wouldn's be scared if there would be an examination or quiz.
Total:29