NSTP Orientation Reflection Paper:

Guide Questions:
1. What is the aim of NSTP?
         National Service Training Program aimed at enhancing civic consciousness and defense preparedness in the youth by developing the ethics of service and patriotism while undergoing training in any of its three program components. Its various components are specially designed to enhance the youth’s active contribution to the general welfare.
2. What are the three (3) program components of NSTP? Differentiate the three.
     a) Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC)  is a program institutionalized under Sections 38 and 39 of Republic Act No. 7077 designed to provide military training to tertiary level students in order to motivate, train, organize and mobilize them for national defense preparedness.
     b) Literacy Training Service (LTS) is a program designed to train students to become teachers of literacy and numeracy skills to school children, out of school youth, and other segments of society in need of their service.
     c) Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS)  refers to programs of activities contributory to the general welfare and the betterment of life for the members of the community or the enhancement of its facilities, especially those devoted to improving health, education, environment, entrepreneurship, safety, recreation and morals of the citizenry.

3. What program component do you intend to enrol? Why?
     Even though I don’t have NSTP the program component that I intend to enrol is Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) and Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS). Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) because I wanted to join the military and I want to experience military training. Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS) because I want to server people who are in need.

4. What is the role of NSTP in nation-building?
     The role of NSTP in nation-building is to promote the role of the youth in nation-building. As such, it aims to encourage the youth to become civic and/or military leaders and volunteers whom could be called upon by the nation in cases their services are needed.

5. How will NSTP help you become good Filipino citizen and good Benildean-Lasallian?
NSTP will help me become a good Filipino citizen and a good Benildean-Lasallian by making me know what is happening around me and what I can do about it.
