Ten New things that I didn't know about Saint Jean-Baptiste de La Salle

1. He was the Founder of Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools
                  -The Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools (also known as the Christian Brothers, the Lasallian Brothers, 
the French Christian Brothers, or the De La Salle Brothers; French: Frères des écoles chrétiennes; 
Latin: Fratres Scholarum Christianarum) is a Roman Catholic religious teaching congregation, founded in France by Saint Jean-Baptiste de la Salle and now based in Rome. 
Brothers use the post-nominal abbreviation FSC.
2. He dedicated much of his life for the education of poor children in France; in doing so, he started many lasting educational practices.
3. He received the tonsure at age eleven and was named canon of Rheims Cathedral when he was sixteen.
4. He became involved in education little by little, without ever consciously setting out to do so. 
In 1679, what began as a charitable effort to help Adrian Nyel establish a school for the poor in De La Salle's home town gradually became his life's work.
5. He abandoned his family home, moved in with the teachers, renounced his position as Canon and his wealth (worth approximately $500,000 today).
6. He formed a new community of lay religious teachers. The De La Salle Brothers were the first Roman Catholic religious teaching order that did not include any priests.
7. He was a pedagogical thinker of note and is among the founders of a distinctively modern pedagogy.
8. The educational establishment resented his innovative methods and his insistence on gratuity for all, regardless of whether they could afford to pay.
9. De La Salle and his Brothers succeeded in creating a network of quality schools throughout France that featured instruction in the vernacular, students grouped according to ability and achievement, integration of religious instruction with secular subjects, well-prepared teachers with a sense of vocation and mission, and the involvement of parents.
10. De La Salle was a pioneer in programs for training lay teachers.
